1.	Vacancy and Leasing
1.1.	What happens if the security deposit does not cover the damages?
Topsky will send the resident an invoice for any deficit. If the resident does not pay, Topsky will send the resident to a third-party collection agency. You, the investor, will need to cover the cost of damages above the security deposit to get all work completed. To learn more click here. ( refers to question 1.3.)
1.2.	Do you market my property while the resident is still living in the property?
Topsky Pre-lists the property while occupied in most markets.  Pre-listing the property is advertising the property that it is coming soon and accepting applications.  Topsky does not show occupied properties.
https://www.Topsky.co/knowledge-center/advertising-your-rental-property
1.3.	What are the damages that the resident is responsible for?
Typical damages a resident is responsible for include cleaning, carpet cleaning and landscaping.  

Landlords cannot charge a resident for normal wear and tear.

Please review the Wear & Tear VS Damages sheet.
1.4.	How does Topsky determine what is needed to get the home ready for a new resident?
Topsky reviews the latest assessment report to determine what work is needed to get the property ready for the next resident.  Topsky sends the report to a trusted vendor to get an estimate based on the report.  Once the estimate is received Topsky will determine what is damage (resident charge) and what is wear and tear (investor charge). 

If the wear and tear estimate exceeds the maintenance limit, your property manager will review the assessment with you for your approval and funding.  If the wear and tear estimate does not exceed the maintenance limit, the property manager will approve the work to begin.
1.5.	What does Topsky do to limit the number of vacant days?
In most markets, Topsky will list the property for rent while the unit is still occupied. Prospects can apply and pay a deposit before it becomes available for showings. Topsky schedules the utility transfer weeks before the scheduled move out date to avoid interruption and ensure we're able to complete the move-out inspection as soon as the resident vacates. Topsky utilizes its in-house technicians and trusted third-party vendors to complete any necessary repairs as quickly as possible. Once the home is rent-ready, Topsky completes a virtual tour and high-quality photo package to update marketing websites with. Topsky then conducts a weekly analysis to ensure we're receiving sufficient interest to secure a lease and makes recommendations to increase traffic as necessary.
1.6.	Do you rekey the house after the resident moves out?
Yes, each time a resident moves out the locks are changed. This can protect the owner from liability and and help residents feel safe in their new home. Therefore, Topsky’s policy is to always change the locks each time prior to a new resident moving in. 
1.7.	As the property owner, what can I do to limit the number of vacant days?
The best way to limit vacant days is to allow Topsky to do what we do best, which is to manage and lease properties.

By following our recommendations, you can limit the vacant days.

Approving upgrades, contributing funds in a timely manner (if needed), allowing pets and accepting our rental price recommendations are all examples of what you can do to help reduce vacant days.

https://www.Topsky.co/knowledge-center/10-steps-to-avoid-vacancy-lease-your-rental-property-quickly
1.8.	What criteria does Topsky use to qualify applicants?

Please review the screening criteria
1.9.	Will you let me know when my home has been leased?
An automated email notification will be sent to you once a lease has been executed on your home.
1.10.	How are turnover expenses billed?
The expenses will be paid directly from the property’s operating account and, if applicable, the resident’s security deposit will be applied towards the property’s operating account for reimbursement of resident-responsible charges.
1.11.	What are the damages that the resident is responsible for?
Typical damages a resident is responsible for include cleaning, carpet cleaning and landscaping.  
Landlords cannot charge a resident for normal wear and tear.
Please review the Wear & Tear VS Damages sheet.
1.12.	Can the resident use their security deposit to pay the last month rent?
No. The Security deposit covers any damages caused by the resident and their guests and any outstanding administrative fees. The security deposit is processed by Topsky Management according to State Law.
1.13.	How many days notice does the resident have to give to move out?
The standard Topsky procedure requires the resident must give 30 days notice, the procedure may change depending upon state law or non-Topsky lease.

If they do not give appropriate notice, they are rent responsible for the amount of time stated in the lease.
1.14.	What is Topsky’s rental application process?
Each person 18 years or older is required to apply. We do a thorough credit, income, and rental history check. Subject to applicable law, a background check that includes criminal history may be conducted. We require the applicant make 2.5x the monthly rent and there is no history of rental debt on their credit. We also have credit thresholds that the applicant has to fall within to qualify for the home. In some instances, we require an additional deposit to lease the property if the applicant has a marginal Resident Score (a combination of the above criteria). We collect a hold fee once approved and this takes the home off the market. If the applicant cancels and the cancellation is not due to the home condition or ready date being adjusted, we take a daily prorated amount out of the applicant's hold fee.
1.15.	Can I lease the property myself?
We are a full-service Leasing and Property Management company. We have policies and procedures in place to ensure we are in compliance with fair housing guidelines. For liability reasons, we do not allow owners to lease homes themselves. 
1.16.	Can my agent list the property for lease while Topsky is managing the property?
In certain markets, we work with outside agents to get our homes leased. Historically, we find that we lease homes faster if the listing stays in-house. It also costs the owner less money.  For this reason, we encourage owners to use our services before employing outside agents to list their homes. 
1.17.	Does Topsky adhere to Federal Fair Housing Guidelines?
Yes, Topsky abides by the National Fair Housing Act, the Fair Credit Act, and follows the same screening and application process for all properties and applicants. Subject to applicable law, a background check that includes criminal history may not be required.
（Oakland Notice to all Applicants and Prospects.pdf）

1.18.	How long can a resident hold a property?
A resident can put down a security deposit to hold a property up to two weeks.  If a resident would like to hold the property greater than two weeks, Topsky will contact the owner for approval.
1.19.	Does Topsky require residents to have renters insurance?
Yes. Residents must provide a copy of their renters insurance before Topsky will give the resident access to the property.
1.20.	Does Topsky require residents to have utilities in their name?
For any property that utilities are not provided by the landlord or the home owners association, the resident must provide proof of utilities before Topsky will give the resident  access to the property.
1.21.	Does Topsky make the final decision on application approvals?
As a Topsky client, you do not have to worry about reviewing and screening applications. Topsky performs all of the heavy lifting for you. Topsky abides by the federal Fair Housing Act when selecting applicants as uses a trusted third party vendor to assist us with processing the applications. By leaving the entire application process in our hands, it allows us to shield you from potential fair housing claims or lawsuits.
1.22.	Can I receive a copy of the applicant’s credit report?
The Fair Credit Act prevents us from divulging personal information about an applicant, so we’re, unfortunately, unable to provide you with this information.
1.23.	Who holds the security deposit?
Topsky holds the security deposit. Topsky also accepts the risk and responsibility of performing the security deposit disposition when the resident moves out.  
1.24.	What are rent ready standards?
Topsky has adopted the following rent ready standards in an effort to create happy homes and healthy investments for our residents and owners. We have found over time that rent ready properties lease faster, achieve higher rents, and attract higher quality residents, resulting in lower vacancy rates and turnover expenses. A home is considered rent ready after all rooms have been inspected, all safety issues have been cured, any functional defects have been repaired and the home has been professionally cleaned according to the standards listed in the PDF below.
1.25.	What is a property turnover, and what does it cost?A property turnover, commonly referred to as a property “turn,” is the process by which a home is renovated after a renter moves out, so that it is “rent-ready”; that is, ready to be rented to the next occupant.
A property turnover, commonly referred to as a property “turn,” is the process by which a home is renovated after a renter moves out, so that it is “rent-ready”; that is, ready to be rented to the next occupant.
To help investors navigate the complexity of the renovation process and to ensure that it is completed quickly, Topsky has created a detailed Turns Breakdown document to provide a transparent breakdown of all factors that influence the cost of a turn.
Click below to download the Turns Breakdown.

2.	Guarantees
1.1.	What does the $5,000 Topsky Evicition Guarantee entail and what are typical fees in a straightforward "non-payment" eviction?
Typical fees for evictions of a non-paying resident are between $950-$1500, depending on market and level of complexity. It can take up to 60-90 days before a sheriff can remove a resident after a successful unlawful detainer judgment has been awarded to the landlord. More complex and disputed cases can cost significantly more. The $5,000 covers the attorney fees and court costs incurred during the eviction.
1.2.	Can I pick my own lawyer to handle the eviction?
Yes, you can. You will also have access to our established landlord-facing attorneys.
1.3.	Do Topsky's guarantees apply to my current tenant if Topsky didn't place them?
If your current resident meets the following three criteria, Topsky will extend the guarantees offered in one of its premium tiers to an existing resident:

1. The resident has been professionally managed by a licensed and insured property management company.

2. Said management company can provide a rent roll/ledger which shows the resident has paid rent on time for at least the last 6 months prior to scheduled management takeover date with no delinquencies.

3. The resident and Investor agree to allow a virtual inspection of the unit to confirm it's in stable condition and the resident is caring for the home according to the terms of the lease agreement.
1.4.	Does the $2500 pet guarantee cover pets already in place at my property if I sign up with an occupied unit?
No. In order for the pet to be covered by our Topsky Guarantee, pets have to be screened. Therefore, only new residents with pets will be covered by this guarantee.
1.5.	Who determines what pet damage is and the cost to repair it?
Our portfolio associates, who facilitate a thorough move-out inspection, will document the condition of the home to review damage, smells, stains, etc., that might have been left by the pet. This would all be photographed, and documented to memorialize the damage, if any.
1.6.	Does the rent income start once I get my rent projections or after a tenant is placed?
Rental Income Guarantee starts once a Topsky-placed resident has been vetted, qualified and placed into a Topsky-managed unit.
1.7.	Do Topsky Guarantees renew annually?
No. Guarantees only apply once in the lifespan of a Topsky-placed resident
1.8.	If a resident loses his/her job as a result of COVID-19, does rent income apply?
No. Guarantees only apply once in the lifespan of a Topsky-placed resident
1.9.	Does rent income guarantee apply to vacancy periods?
No. It applies after a rent amount has been set, and a tenancy has started with a Topsky qualified, and placed resident. If a Topsky-placed tenant abandons the property prior to lease expiration, Topsky will pay landlord rent until the property is re-rented, up to $5000.
1.10.	When do I get paid on this if the rent isn't paid?
If rent is not received and cleared by the first rent distribution (8th-10th), you will receive a payment from Topsky by the 25th of the same month.	
 
1.11.	How Do The Rental Income and Eviction Protections work?
If rent is not paid on the 1st of the month, a 5-day grace period kicks in. On the morning of the 6th day after no rent has been collected, we text, email, and then post a 3-day notice to pay rent or quit. If still no rent has been collected the morning of the 4th day after that notice has expired, we can proceed with a Unlawful Detainer eviction (Presuming courts are back open and there is no local eviction moratorium in effect). Internal accounting audits all properties with delinquent rents, verifies if they have guarantees in place or not, and, if available, credits their accounts with +$ to use toward rental income. Money will be disbursed just as if the resident had paid on time. Simultaneous to receiving your rental payments from the Rental Income Guarantee, and if allowable, we'll proceed with the Unlawful Detainer for your unit.
1.12.	Does the $5,000 Rental Income Protection replenish once the 'late/unpaid' rent is collected?
Yes. If the resident pays the rent, Topsky will be reimbursed and the $5,000 guarantee amount is replenished.
1.13.	What is the Topsky Pet Guarantee?
Topsky Management will cover the cost of all damage above normal wear and tear of up to $2,500 at your rental property caused by a pet that has been approved by Topsky during the leasing process.

The Topsky Pet Guarantee excludes all service animals, per the Fair Housing Act, and all collection efforts will be conducted by Topsky.
3.	Repairs and Maintenance
1.1.	As a Topsky owner, what sort of discounts can I expect to receive on repairs and maintenance materials?
You can expect to receive a discount of up to 25%, typically between 5-10% on repairs and maintenance materials required to complete service requests completed by the Topsky team. These savings will be reflected as a negative line item in your monthly invoice. Please note, service requests completed by 3rd party partners will not receive discounts.


1.2.	How is Topsky able to receive discounts?
Due to the scale and volume at which Topsky as a company completes repairs and maintenance requests, we are able to partner with companies to receive discounts. Topsky has partnered with Home Depot as well as other direct manufacturers to give these discounts directly back to our owners. 
1.3.	How can I determine what the discount will be for repairs and maintenance materials?
The discounts will vary item by item. To find out how much you are saving on materials, check out your monthly invoice and look for negative line items next to materials. This will indicate how much money you saved.


1.4.	What is the “Additional 1 year warranty free of cost” line item?
In addition to the discounts you will receive on repairs and maintenance materials, our partners have also provided 1-year warranties on appliances purchased for Topsky-completed service requests. This is an additional benefit and totally free of cost to our owners. 
1.5.	What is a property turnover, and what does it cost?
A property turnover, commonly referred to as a property “turn,” is the process by which a home is renovated after a renter moves out, so that it is “rent-ready”; that is, ready to be rented to the next occupant.

To help investors navigate the complexity of the renovation process and to ensure that it is completed quickly, Topsky has created a detailed Turns Breakdown document to provide a transparent breakdown of all factors that influence the cost of a turn.

Click below to download the Turns Breakdown.
4.	Smart Locks
1.1.	How much does a Topsky smart lock cost?
On most doors, we can install the smart lock for a one-time cost of $350. This includes the lock, which is yours to keep, installation, integration with the Topsky platform, and standardizing access hardware on all other exterior doors. If the front door on your property is metal or installation requires more time or specialist skill, it may cost more.
1.2.	Can I purchase my own or use my current ‘smart’ lock?
Unfortunately not. Our smart locks are designed to integrate directly with our platform to make it accessible and controllable for all parties; residents, vendors/contractors, and Topsky property managers.
1.3.	Do I get to keep it if I cancel my property management agreement?
Yes! If you decide to cancel your property management agreement with Topsky, we’ll transfer access to the smart lock directly to you.
1.4.	When does Topsky install the smart lock on the property?
Topsky will install the smart lock on the first visit to the property. If for any reason we aren’t able to install the smart lock during our first visit, we will complete the installation during the turn of the property.
1.5.	Can investors have access to the smart lock code and be able to create codes?
No, investors will not get a code, nor will they have the ability to create codes. Topsky manages access to the lock so that we can create codes for tours, contractors and residents. In the past when we used keys, the investor did not receive a key, so our policy is the same for smart locks.
1.6.	Can investors opt out of receiving the smart lock at their vacant property?
While we do recommend smart locks, investors may choose to opt-out. In this case, Topsky will review all exterior doors on the first visit to the property and update hardware as necessary per our access standards. The cost for updating hardware is $350.
1.7.	What if the property already has a smart lock?
We’ll need to replace your smart lock with a Topsky lock, so that we can generate codes from our platform. When we replace the lock, we can return your smart lock to you.
1.8.	Does the smart lock have a physical key?
Yes, but this key will not be used. Topsky will keep the key safe to prevent unauthorized access to the property.
1.9.	What happens when there is a power outage or the wifi goes out? Can residents or maintenance technicians still access the property?
Wifi and electricity generated from the property aren’t necessary to use  the smart lock. The smart lock uses batteries that last about 1.5 years so the property can still be accessed if power or wifi go out at the property.
1.10.	Will smart locks be installed for investors who purchased a property through Topsky?
Yes, if an investor acquires a property with Topsky in specific markets, we will still install a smart lock during their onboarding inspection, after the investor has closed on the property.
5.	Rent and Residents
1.1.	Can I still decide if I want to accept pets or not?
Yes, you can choose not to accept pets at your property. However, Topsky strongly recommends that all of its owners allow pets in their rental homes. Pet-friendly properties lease an average of 10 days faster and have a 4% lower vacancy rate. The majority of renters — at least 80% — own a pet
https://www.Topsky.co/knowledge-center/should-you-allow-pets-in-your-rental-property
1.2.	Is my resident going to renew?
Topsky starts the renewal process 90 days before your home’s expiration month. Topsky will notify the owner of the recommended renewal plan and you’ll receive an automated email notification once the renewal lease has been executed.
1.3.	How do I know if my resident paid rent yet?
You may visit the “Properties” tab on the Topsky owner portal to view the real-time rent collection status for your home.
https://support.Topsky.co/kb/guide/en/how-do-i-know-if-my-resident-paid-rent-yet-D9OgX9SEhI/Steps/291495
1.4.	How does Topsky collect rent?
At Topsky, we understand that timely, reliable distributions are critical to the success of your investment. In the case that a resident is late or delinquent on their rent, here’s what you can expect.
Refer to Topsky Rent Collection Process
6.	Distribution and Accounting
1.1.	How do I update my ACH account for distributions?
Please visit the Topsky Owner Portal and go to Account Settings. Go to Entities and then click on the pencil on the top right corner of your entity name. You can change your banking information on this page. Please note we will request a security code that is sent to your email to prevent any fraud.
1.2.	Can I receive additional or different reporting?
Please visit the Topsky Owner Portal and go to the Documents tab 

You may click "Generate Report" and generate custom reporting through our most popular reports such as cash flow and income statements.
1.3.	My property account needs more funding, how do I contribute?
Your Topsky representative must request the amount needed through our internal system. Once the request is made, you will see the request in the middle of the main dashboard of your Topsky Owner Portal. Once you click approve, you can enter your banking details which will be saved for future use. Please note that the third party charges a 2.75% fee for using a credit or debit card but it is a free transaction if you use your checking or savings account banking details.
1.4.	What are the cash balances on the Earnings Report?
The cash balance at the top of the report is the actual cash balance we have on file for your property as of the date listed. This can include your contracted reserves.

The cash balance near the bottom of the report is the actual cash balance we have for your property as of the date listed before the distribution.

The cash balance at the top of the report will always match the cash balance at the bottom of your previous earnings report so you can follow the cash from report to report.
1.5.	What is the minimum cash balance on the Earnings Report?
The minimum cash balance is the contracted reserve amount that was agreed upon in your property management agreement. This amount will be the same on every report as it is the minimum cash balance that we are holding on your account. This allows Topsky to operate your home more efficiently. Reserves are used if an invoice is received after a rent distribution has already been sent to the owner rather than needing to ask for an owner to contribute money.
1.6.	How is the distribution amount calculated on the Earnings Report?
The Cash Balance at the top of your report + Money In - Money Out - Reserved = Total Distribution Amount.
1.7.	What is the Reserved category on the Earnings Report?
The reserved category includes your minimum cash balance (or contracted reserves) and any invoices that have been received but not yet paid by the most recent distribution. This means Topsky withholding funds from the distribution in order to make payment for the unpaid invoices.
1.8.	Will I receive an Earnings Report every week?
No. Earnings reports will always go out on the 1st distribution of the month which is on the 10th (or next business day if the 10th falls on a weekend or holiday).

You will only receive another earnings report in the same month if another distribution is made.

Another distribution will be made if funds are received after the bank cutoff date for the 1st distribution of the month and there are no expenses needing to be paid.
1.9.	Why is “Previous Owner Distribution” reflected under the Money Out section?
The Earnings Reports have cash cut-off dates that end a few business days before the actual distributions. This allows time for rent payments to clear and process before distributions are made. Since the next report will start as of a date a few of business days before the previous distribution, it is represented in the report so that it is congruent with the general ledger. Please note that the Previous Owner Distribution is offset since it will also be included in the cash balance at the top of the Earnings Report so that there is no change to the cash flow.
1.10.	What is “Uncleared Money In”?
Uncleared Money In is any funds that are being added to your property’s operating account but they have not cleared and processed yet. The most common item is rent that has been paid by the resident but it has not cleared the bank yet. Rent is not distributed until it clears so that we do not risk the chance of sending funds to the owner that have been returned or bounced back to the resident.
1.11.	What is "Reserved for Future Expenses" in Cash Balance widget?
"Reserved for Future Expenses" in Cash Balance widget is calculated based on holdbacks and invoices (that are not paid yet). The full list of the invoices/active holdbacks is present in the 'Reserved' part of the Earnings Report.
1.12.	How do I read my distribution statement?
We've created this glossary to help you understand your distribution statement. It explains how the statement is organized and defines the terms you'll see. If you have any questions or if there's anything else you'd like to know, please contact your property manager.

Refer to Distribution Statement glossary.
1.13.	When do I receive my distribution?
Wondering when you will receive your money?

Please refer to the distribution schedule for 2024. The dates listed are the dates when Topsky initiates distributions. It might take up to 3 business days for the distribution to show in your bank account. 
 
7.	Common Questions
1.1.	Why do you require a reserve for my property?
A required reserve is an industry standard and allows Topsky to operate your home more efficiently. Reserves are used if an invoice is received after a rent distribution has already been sent to the owner rather than needing to ask for an owner to contribute money.
1.2.	How do I receive copies of invoices for monthly expenses?
Copies of invoices are included in the email with your earnings report.

1.3.	What is a Repairs & Maintenance (R&M) Limit? Will you contact me to approve every service request?
The Repairs & Maintenance limit is the monetary amount where Topsky will reach out to you for required approval on a repair. If a repair is over the approval limit and not considered an immediate emergency, Topsky will require approval from the owner. If a repair is lower than the approval limit, Topsky will proceed with the repair without owner approval. This limit is included in order for Topsky to efficiently manage your property and create a happy home for your resident. You may also update your automated notifications in the Account & Settings section of the Topsky Owner Portal to notify you when any service request has been created.
1.4.	How do I contact my portfolio management team?
The most efficient way to communicate with your portfolio management team is using the Topsky portal messaging or e-mailing owners@Topsky.co. You may also call 833-FOR-Topsky.
1.5.	How should I report a potential security issue?
Please contact us immediately either using the Topsky app, email us at owners@Topsky.co, or call us at 833-FOR-Topsky.
1.6.	Why do I need to provide a Certificate of Insurance
Many of our investors ask why we require a Certificate of Insurance. When a property manager is hired, they perform a variety of different services on behalf of the investor and assumes some risk and liability. In most cases, the property manager carries Errors and Omissions Insurance and General Liability Insurance, but that only protects them against claims related to services provided; it does not offer protection against claims about the property itself.
1.7.	Now that I've signed my property management agreement, what should I expect and when?
Timeline Expectations
Now that you've signed your Topsky property management agreement, please refer to the timeline linked below so you know what to expect, and when, as you get started with Topsky.
1.8.	What is a property turnover, and what does it cost?
A property turnover, commonly referred to as a property “turn,” is the process by which a home is renovated after a renter moves out, so that it is “rent-ready”; that is, ready to be rented to the next occupant.

To help investors navigate the complexity of the renovation process and to ensure that it is completed quickly, Topsky has created a detailed Turns Breakdown document to provide a transparent breakdown of all factors that influence the cost of a turn.

Click below to download the Turns Breakdown.
8.	Offboarding
1.1.	When an offboard is initiated, what is Topsky responsible for handling?
Disconnecting all utility services in Topsky’s name, if applicable
Canceling any applicable recurring and contract services (e.g. lawn care, snowplow, common area maintenance, pool service, etc.)
Stopping mortgage, taxes, insurance, HOA payments
Notifying residents of the upcoming transition and provide them with new PM information prior to the management termination date
Discontinuing marketing efforts on vacant properties effective immediately
Sending a link to a shared folder that will contain property and resident documents
Coordinating the handoff of keys
Requesting final invoicing for services rendered to date
Completing the turn, if already in process and enough funds are present in the operating account (unless directed otherwise)
Sending the security deposit to owner for resident move-out processing
1.2.	When an offboard is initiated, what is the property owner responsible for handling?

Turning on utilities, as applicable, and updating the mailing address for bills
Establishing applicable recurring services (e.g. lawn care, snowplow, common area maintenance, pool service, etc.)
Notifying housing authority of management change and provide necessary paperwork
Setting up new payment method for mortgage, taxes, insurance, HOA
Updating contact information with HOA
Sending out communication to residents with new PM’s contact information and further direction on rent payments, service request submissions, etc.
Processing statement of security deposit for the resident
1.3.	When an offboard is initiated, will there be any change to my normal distribution schedule?
Yes, Topsky will hold the last month's distribution payment until all final charges and fund transfers are reconciled. Once all final invoices and management fees are paid and assessed AND any Topsky-held security deposits are transferred from the trust account to the operating account, the final distribution, which includes remaining rent proceeds, reserves, and resident security deposits will be issued, along with final owner statements. The expected timeframe to receive the final statement and distribution is 30-45 days after cessation of management.
1.4.	If my final distribution is held until final charges and funds are reconciled, when can I expect to receive it?
The expected timeframe to receive the final statement and distribution is 30-45 days after cessation of management. If we have all items completed, we will process sooner. Alternatively, if there are not enough funds to cover all final invoices and/or if there is an outstanding balance, Topsky must receive reimbursement within 4 business days of the determination of the final balance to avoid additional charges.
1.5.	What happens to the resident’s security deposit?
Topsky-held security deposits will be transferred from the trust account to the operating account and then the property owner is responsible for sending resident security deposits to the new Property Manager.
1.6.	After receiving the final distribution, is there anything else the owner might be responsible for?

Potentially, yes. While our goal is to wrap everything up before distributing funds 30-45 days after cessation of management, certain situations may require further attention from the owner. Two example scenarios are listed below:

If Topsky receives any invoices for which the owner is responsible up to 60 days after the last day of management, Topsky will forward them to the owner. The owner is responsible for ensuring all vendors, services, and providers have the correct contact information to avoid any delays in processing.
If there are not enough funds to cover all final invoices and/or if there is an outstanding balance after the last day of management, Topsky will send notifications to the owner requesting reimbursement within 4 business days of the determination of the final balance to avoid additional charges. If no payment is received, Topsky will continue to contact the property owner in order to recover any money owed. Topsky reserves all legal rights to recoup any outstanding funds, including the filing of liens and/or the pursuit of formal collections.
9.	Tax Info
1.1.	Why is the rental tax income or expenses not being reported?
State & local tax is considered a pass through as the service provider remits what is collected. Therefore, we are not including it in the 1099-MISC income amount and it is not shown on the income or expense sections of the Year-end Tax Statement. See page 4 under “State or local sales taxes” at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/i1099msc.pdf. 
1.2.	When and how will I receive my 1099-MISC & year-end tax statement?
The 1099-MISC & year-end statement will be uploaded to your Topsky portal by February 15, 2024. The 1099-MISC will be mailed to you and filed with the IRS by January 31, 2024. Topsky will send out an email once all tax documents are available on your portal. 
1.3.	Why might I be paying taxes on “prepaid” rent for the current calendar year?
Topsky acts as an agent on behalf of the owner. “Prepaid” rent is received in a current month and later applied to a future month. By law, Topsky is required to report all income received by December 31, 2023 as income for that calendar year. When income is received in the operating account on behalf of the owner prior to midnight on January 1 of the new year, Topsky has to report it as income for the prior year. For more information, please visit https://www.irs.gov/taxtopics/tc414

In addition, the “40010.000 Rent” includes January 2023 rent if it was paid on or before December 31, 2022. The year-end statement will deduct this amount because the prepaid rent from December 31, 2023 was already included in 2023’s 1099-MISC.
1.4.	Why might “prepaid” rent be more than one month’s rent?
Depending on how much a resident pays in advance, “prepaid” rent may be more than one month’s rent. There is no cap to how much a resident might pay in advance. Please note that the prepaid rent category gets balanced out after 1 year with Topsky as the next calendar year’s rent will deduct the prepaid rent that was applied previously.
1.5.	If “prepaid” rent is received in the prior calendar year, shouldn’t management fees associated with that rent in the current calendar year be deducted from the income in the prior calendar year as well?
Regardless of when rent is paid, we only apply management fees once a month. This means that there may be scenarios in which residents “prepay” rent in the prior calendar year, but we do not assess management fees until the current calendar year. This means that the total income (prior to deduction of management fees) will appear on the prior year’s 1099-MISC.
1.6.	Why might the amount reported on my 1099 not match the amount on my earnings reports?
The main reason includes discrepancies due to “prepaid rent” as the monthly earnings reports will not include this amount.
1.7.	Why might the amount reported on my 1099 not match the amount on my year end statement?
1) This could be due to the fact that there are multiple owners that receive distributions in your entity. Topsky split up the income amount based on your distribution split percentage for the 1099-MISC but the year-end statement has the combined total for the property.

2) The second possible reason is due to multiple properties under one entity. You would need to add all of the total income up for each property in order to get to the 1099-MISC amount.
1.8.	My name or TIN number looks incorrect. How do we fix it?
If there are any corrections needed, please contact owners@Topsky.co or message us in your Topsky portal. Please note that you will be required to provide Topsky with a corrected W-9 showing accurate information. We will send a corrected 1099-MISC to you and to the IRS, as needed. You can locate the blank W-9 form on the IRS website here. 
1.9.	Why am I paying taxes on gross income vs what I actually received in my personal account?
Topsky acts as an agent on behalf of the owner. If any income is received in the operating account on behalf of the owner, Topsky has to report this income. You may deduct certain expenses from your year-end statement but Topsky is not a tax professional and recommends that you speak with a CPA on how to best file your taxes. For more information, please visit https://www.irs.gov/taxtopics/tc414
1.10.	Why are turnover/move-out costs reported as income?
Turnover or move-out categories may reflect under the income section because the resident’s security deposit is being transferred to your property’s operating account and is considered income. For more information, please visit https://www.irs.gov/taxtopics/tc414
1.11.	Why am I receiving a 592B form?
If you have an investment property in California but reside outside of California, Topsky legally has to withhold 7% of all rental income and the 592B form is used to report the withholding. For more information, please visit https://www.ftb.ca.gov/forms/2020/2020-592-instructions.html
1.12.	Why did I not receive a 1099-MISC?
If you did not receive a 1099-MISC form, we may not have your tax information on file or (W9, W8, etc) or your total income for the year did not exceed $600. Please contact owners@Topsky.co with the completed document as soon as possible so we can generate your 1099-MISC.
1.13.	Why is there a line item on my Earnings Report or tax document for withholding?
In certain circumstances, we are required to withhold a portion of your gross income on behalf of the IRS. The most common reasons we might withhold are:

1) You have not furnished a W-9, or the W-9 you provided is incomplete

2) Your primary residence is outside of the United States, and you have not provided us with form W-8 ECI
1.14.	What forms are required if I live outside of the United States?

If you are not a resident of the United States, but own and rent real property in a U.S. state or territory, you must submit a completed form W-8 BEN. The W-8 BEN must include either an ITIN number or if you have been issued an SSN number in the past, you may use your SSN. In addition, foreign taxpayers must provide form W-8 ECI if they are claiming exemption from the required 30% flat withholding on gross receipts. If we do not have a complete form W-8 ECI on defile, we are required to withhold 30% of gross rents to comply with U.S. tax code requirements.
1.15.	How do I update my home address?
Updating the home address might have implications on the tax liability. To ensure the tax information is accurate, please provide Topsky with a corrected W9 form to update your address. Topsky will revise the address shown on a 1099-MISC form if an owner has moved out of state. This correction is not required for in-state address updates as the income will still be reported to the state based on the recipient's Tax ID. Topsky can mail a copy of the 1099-Misc to the recipient's new address as requested.
1.16.	My address is incorrect in the 1099 form. What should I do?
Address change will not impact your tax liability unless you moved out of state from your previous address. Please contact owners@Topsky.co in case you have changed your primary residence across states. 
1.17.	How will I receive my 1099-MISC & year-end tax statement?
The 1099-MISC will be mailed to you and uploaded to your Topsky portal. The year-end statement will only be uploaded to your Topsky portal. All documents will be available by February 15, 2024.
1.18.	Can you revise my 1099-MISC because I have the wrong address?
Updating the home address might have implications on your tax liability. To ensure that your tax information is accurate, please provide Topsky with a corrected W 9 form to update your address. Topsky will revise the address shown on a 1099-MISC form if the owner has moved out of state. This correction is not required for in-state address updates as the income will still be reported based on the recipient's Tax ID. Topsky can mail a copy of the 1099-Misc to the recipient's new address as requested.
1.19.	I’m an International owner and I didn’t receive a 1042 form, when will I get one?
The deadline to submit the 1042-s form for International (non-U.S. citizens) owners is March 15, 2024. We will be submitting these forms and uploading them to the owner portal around that time frame along with their Year-end Tax Statement. If you are an international owner but a U.S. citizen, you will receive a 1099-MISC with the Jan 31, 2024 deadline.
1.20.	I’m a U.S. citizen living abroad in a different country, will I get a 1099-MISC or 1042-S form?
You will be receiving a 1099-MISC since you are a U.S. citizen and pay U.S. taxes. Form 1042-S is for non-U.S. citizens only.
